---
---

# IN RE GRIFFITHS 413 U.S. 717

* Use of this file is subject to the [NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/notice/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](../../../) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

IN RE GRIFFITHS 413 U.S. 717

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CONNECTICUT

NO. 71 - 1336.  ARGUED JANUARY 9, 1973--DECIDED JUNE 25, 1973; 162 CONN. 249, 294 A.2D 281, REVERSED AND REMANDED.

APPLICANT, A RESIDENT ALIEN, WAS DENIED PERMISSION TO TAKE THE CONNECTICUT BAR EXAMINATION SOLELY BECAUSE OF A CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENT IMPOSED BY A STATE COURT RULE, WHICH THE STATE COURTS UPHELD AGAINST APPLICANT'S CONSTITUTIONAL CHALLENGE.  HELD: CONNECTICUT'S EXCLUSION OF ALIENS FROM THE PRACTICE OF LAW VIOLATES THE EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT.  CLASSIFICATIONS BASED ON ALIENAGE, BEING INHERENTLY SUSPECT, ARE SUBJECT TO CLOSE JUDICIAL SCRUTINY, AND HERE THE STATE THROUGH APPELLEE BAR COMMITTEE HAS NOT MET ITS BURDEN OF SHOWING THE CLASSIFICATION TO HAVE BEEN NECESSARY TO VINDICATE THE STATE'S UNDOUBTED INTEREST IN MAINTAINING HIGH PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS.  PP. 722 - 729.  POWELL, J., DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT, IN WHICH

DOUGLAS, BRENNAN, STEWART, WHITE, MARSHALL, AND BLACKMUN,

JJ., JOINED.  BURGER, C. J., FILED A DISSENTING OPINION,

IN WHICH REHNQUIST, J., JOINED, POST, P. 730.  REHNQUIST,

J., FILED A DISSENTING OPINION, ANTE, P. 649.

MR. JUSTICE POWELL DELIVERED THE OPINION OF THE COURT.

THIS CASE PRESENTS A NOVEL QUESTION AS TO THE CONSTRAINTS IMPOSED BY THE EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT ON THE QUALIFICATIONS WHICH A STATE MAY REQUIRE FOR ADMISSION TO THE BAR.

APPELLANT, FRE LE POOLE GRIFFITHS, IS A CITIZEN OF THE NETHERLANDS WHO CAME TO THE UNITED STATES IN 1965, ORIGINALLY AS A VISITOR.  IN 1967 SHE MARRIED A CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES AND BECAME A RESIDENT OF CONNECTICUT.  /1/  AFTER HER GRADUATION FROM LAW SCHOOL, SHE APPLIED IN 1970 FOR PERMISSION TO TAKE THE CONNECTICUT BAR EXAMINATION.  THE COUNTY BAR ASSOCIATION FOUND HER QUALIFIED IN ALL RESPECTS SAVE THAT SHE WAS NOT A CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES AS REQUIRED BY RULE 8 (1) OF THE CONNECTICUT PRACTICE BOOK (1963), /2/  AND ON THAT ACCOUNT REFUSED TO ALLOW HER TO TAKE THE EXAMINATION.  SHE THEN SOUGHT JUDICIAL RELIEF, ASSERTING THAT THE REGULATION WAS UNCONSTITUTIONAL BUT HER CLAIM WAS REJECTED, FIRST BY THE SUPERIOR COURT AND ULTIMATELY BY THE CONNECTICUT SUPREME COURT.  162 CONN. 249, 294 A. 2D 281 (1972).  WE NOTED PROBABLE JURISDICTION, 406 U. S. 966 (1972), AND NOW HOLD THAT THE RULE UNCONSTITUTIONALLY DISCRIMINATES AGAINST RESIDENT ALIENS.  /3/ I

WE BEGIN BY SKETCHING THE BACKGROUND AGAINST WHICH THE STATE BAR EXAMINING COMMITTEE ATTEMPTS TO JUSTIFY THE TOTAL EXCLUSION OF ALIENS FROM THE PRACTICE OF LAW.  FROM ITS INCEPTION, OUR NATION WELCOMED AND DREW STRENGTH FROM THE IMMIGRATION OF ALIENS.  THEIR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC LIFE OF THE COUNTRY WERE SELF-EVIDENT, ESPECIALLY DURING THE PERIODS WHEN THE DEMAND FOR HUMAN RESOURCES GREATLY EXCEEDED THE NATIVE SUPPLY.  THIS DEMAND WAS BY NO MEANS LIMITED TO THE UNSKILLED OR THE UNEDUCATED.  IN 1873, THIS COURT NOTED THAT ADMISSION TO THE PRACTICE OF LAW IN THE COURTS OF A STATE

"IN NO SENSE DEPENDS ON CITIZENSHIP OF THE UNITED STATES.  IT HAS NOT, AS FAR AS WE KNOW, EVER BEEN MADE IN ANY STATE, OR IN ANY CASE, TO DEPEND ON CITIZENSHIP AT ALL.  CERTAINLY MANY PROMINENT AND DISTINGUISHED LAWYERS HAVE BEEN ADMITTED TO PRACTICE, BOTH IN THE STATE AND FEDERAL COURTS, WHO WERE NOT CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES OR OF ANY STATE."  BRADWELL V. STATE, 16 WALL.  130, 139.  /4/

BUT SHORTLY THEREAFTER, IN 1879, CONNECTICUT ESTABLISHED THE PREDECESSOR TO ITS PRESENT RULE TOTALLY EXCLUDING ALIENS FROM THE PRACTICE OF LAW.  162 CONN., AT 253, 294 A. 2D, AT 283.  IN SUBSEQUENT DECADES, WIDE-RANGING RESTRICTIONS FOR THE FIRST TIME BEGAN TO IMPAIR SIGNIFICANTLY THE EFFORTS OF ALIENS TO EARN A LIVELIHOOD IN THEIR CHOSEN OCCUPATIONS.  /5/

IN THE FACE OF THIS TREND, THE COURT NONETHELESS HELD IN 1886 THAT A LAWFULLY ADMITTED RESIDENT ALIEN IS A "PERSON" WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT'S DIRECTIVE THAT A STATE MUST NOT "'DENY TO ANY PERSON WITHIN ITS JURISDICTION THE EQUAL PROTECTION OF THE LAWS.'"

YICK WO V. HOPKINS, 118 U. S. 356, 369 (1886).  THE DECISION IN YICK WO INVALIDATED A MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE REGULATING THE OPERATION OF LAUNDRIES ON THE GROUND THAT THE ORDINANCE WAS DISCRIMINATORILY ENFORCED AGAINST CHINESE OPERATORS.  SOME YEARS LATER, THE COURT STRUCK DOWN AN ARIZONA STATUTE REQUIRING EMPLOYERS OF MORE THAN FIVE PERSONS TO EMPLOY AT LEAST 80% "QUALIFIED ELECTORS OR NATIVE-BORN CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES OR SOME SUBDIVISION THEREOF."  TRUAX V. RAICH, 239 U. S. 33, 35 (1915).  AS STATED FOR THE COURT BY MR. JUSTICE HUGHES:

"IT REQUIRES NO ARGUMENT TO SHOW THAT THE RIGHT TO WORK FOR A LIVING IN THE COMMON OCCUPATIONS OF THE COMMUNITY IS OF THE VERY ESSENCE OF THE PERSONAL FREEDOM AND OPPORTUNITY THAT IT WAS THE PURPOSE OF THE (FOURTEENTH) AMENDMENT TO SECURE.  (CITATIONS OMITTED.)  IF THIS COULD BE REFUSED SOLELY UPON THE GROUND OF RACE OR NATIONALITY, THE PROHIBITION OF THE DENIAL TO ANY PERSON OF THE EQUAL PROTECTION OF THE LAWS WOULD BE A BARREN FORM OF WORDS."  ID., AT 41.

TO BE SURE, THE COURSE OF DECISIONS PROTECTING THE EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS OF RESIDENT ALIENS HAS NOT BEEN AN UNSWERVING ONE.  /6/  IN CLARKE V. DECKEBACH, 274 U. S. 392 (1927), THE COURT WAS FACED WITH A CHALLENGE TO A CITY ORDINANCE PROHIBITING THE ISSUANCE TO ALIENS OF LICENSES TO OPERATE POOL AND BILLIARD ROOMS.  CHARACTERIZING THE BUSINESS AS ONE HAVING "HARMFUL AND VICIOUS TENDENCIES," THE COURT FOUND NO CONSTITUTIONAL INFIRMITY IN THE ORDINANCE:

"IT WAS COMPETENT FOR THE CITY TO MAKE SUCH A CHOICE, NOT SHOWN TO BE IRRATIONAL, BY EXCLUDING FROM THE CONDUCT OF A DUBIOUS BUSINESS AN ENTIRE CLASS RATHER THAN ITS OBJECTIONABLE MEMBERS SELECTED BY MORE EMPIRICAL METHODS."  ID., AT 397.

THIS EASILY EXPANDABLE PROPOSITION SUPPORTED DISCRIMINATION AGAINST RESIDENT ALIENS IN A WIDE RANGE OF OCCUPATIONS.  /7/

BUT THE DOCTRINAL FOUNDATIONS OF CLARKE WERE UNDERMINED IN TAKAHASHI V. FISH & GAME COMM'N, 334 U. S. 410 (1948), WHERE, IN RULING UNCONSTITUTIONAL A CALIFORNIA STATUTE BARRING ISSUANCE OF FISHING LICENSES TO PERSONS "'INELIGIBLE TO CITIZENSHIP," THE COURT STATED THAT "THE POWER OF A STATE TO APPLY ITS LAWS EXCLUSIVELY TO ITS ALIEN INHABITANTS AS A CLASS IS CONFINED WITHIN NARROW LIMITS."  ID., AT 420.  INDEED, WITH THE ISSUE SQUARELY BEFORE IT IN GRAHAM V. RICHARDSON, 403 U. S. 365 (1971), THE COURT CONCLUDED THAT:

"(CLASSIFICATIONS BASED ON ALIENAGE, LIKE THOSE BASED ON NATIONALITY OR RACE, ARE INHERENTLY SUSPECT AND SUBJECT TO CLOSE JUDICIAL SCRUTINY.  ALIENS AS A CLASS ARE A PRIME EXAMPLE OF A 'DISCRETE AND INSULAR' MINORITY (SEE UNITED STATES V. CAROLENE PRODUCTS CO., 304 U. S. 144, 152 - 153, N. 4 (1938)) FOR WHOM SUCH HEIGHTENED JUDICIAL IS APPROPRIATE."  ID., AT 372.  (FOOTNOTES OMITTED.)

THE COURT HAS CONSISTENTLY EMPHASIZED THAT A STATE WHICH ADOPTS A SUSPECT CLASSIFICATION "BEARS A HEAVY BURDEN OF JUSTIFICATION," MC LAUGHLIN V. FLORIDA, 379 U. S. 184, 196 (1964), A BURDEN WHICH, THOUGH VARIOUSLY FORMULATED, REQUIRES THE STATE TO MEET CERTAIN STANDARDS OF PROOF.  IN ORDER TO JUSTIFY THE USE OF A SUSPECT CLASSIFICATION, A STATE MUST SHOW THAT ITS PURPOSE OR INTEREST IS BOTH CONSTITUTIONALLY PERMISSIBLE /8/  AND SUBSTANTIAL, /9/  AND THAT ITS USE OF THE CLASSIFICATION IS "NECESSARY . . . TO THE ACCOMPLISHMENT" OF ITS PURPOSE /10/  OR THE SAFEGUARDING OF ITS INTEREST.  /11/

RESIDENT ALIENS, LIKE CITIZENS, PAY TAXES, SUPPORT THE ECONOMY, SERVE IN THE ARMED FORCES, AND CONTRIBUTE IN MYRIAD OTHER WAYS TO OUR SOCIETY.  IT IS APPROPRIATE THAT A STATE BEAR A HEAVY BURDEN WHEN IT DEPRIVES THEM OF EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES.

II

WE HOLD THAT THE COMMITTEE, ACTING ON BEHALF OF THE STATE, HAS NOT CARRIED ITS BURDEN.  THE STATE'S ULTIMATE INTEREST HERE IMPLICATED IS TO ASSURE THE REQUISITE QUALIFICATIONS OF PERSONS LICENSED TO PRACTICE LAW.  /12/  IT IS UNDISPUTED THAT A STATE HAS A CONSTITUTIONALLY PERMISSIBLE AND SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST IN DETERMINING WHETHER AN APPLICANT POSSESSES "' THE CHARACTER AND GENERAL FITNESS REQUISITE FOR AN ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR-AT-LAW.'"  LAW STUDENTS RESEARCH COUNCIL V. WADMOND, 401 U. S. 154, 159 (1971).  SEE ALSO KONIGSBERG V. STATE BAR, 366 U. S. 36, 40 - 41 (1961); SCHWARE V. BOARD OF BAR EXAMINERS, 353 U. S. 232, 239 (1957).  /13/  BUT NO QUESTION IS RAISED IN THIS CASE AS TO APPELLANT'S CHARACTER OR GENERAL FITNESS.  RATHER, THE SOLE BASIS FOR DISQUALIFICATION IS HER STATUS AS A RESIDENT ALIEN.

THE COMMITTEE DEFENDS RULE 8 (1)'S REQUIREMENT THAT APPLICANTS FOR ADMISSION TO THE BAR BE CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE GROUND THAT THE SPECIAL ROLE OF THE LAWYER JUSTIFIES EXCLUDING ALIENS FROM THE PRACTICE OF LAW.  IN CONNECTICUT, THE COMMITTEE POINTS OUT THE MAXIM THAT A LAWYER IS AN "OFFICER OF THE COURT" IS GIVEN CONCRETE MEANING BY A STATUTE WHICH MAKES EVERY LAWYER A "COMMISSIONER OF THE SUPERIOR COURT."  AS SUCH, A LAWYER HAS AUTHORITY TO "SIGN WRITS AND SUBPOENAS, TAKE RECOGNIZANCES, ADMINISTER OATHS AND TAKE DEPOSITIONS AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS OF DEEDS."  CONN. GEN. STAT. REV. ^ 51 - 85.  IN THE EXERCISE OF THIS AUTHORITY, A CONNECTICUT LAWYER MAY COMMAND THE ASSISTANCE OF A COUNTY SHERIFF OR A TOWN CONSTABLE.  CONN. GEN. STAT. REV. ^ 52 - 90.  BECAUSE OF THESE AND OTHER POWERS, THE CONNECTICUT SUPREME COURT COMMENTED THAT

"(THE COURTS NOT ONLY DEMAND (LAWYERS') L ALTY, CONFIDENCE AND RESPECT BUT ALSO REQUIRE THEM TO FUNCTION IN A MANNER WHICH WILL FOSTER PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN THE PROFESSION AND, CONSEQUENTLY, THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM."  162 CONN., AT 262 - 263, 294 A. 2D, AT 287.

IN ORDER TO ESTABLISH A LINK BETWEEN CITIZENSHIP AND THE POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LAWYER IN CONNECTICUT, THE COMMITTEE CONTRASTS A CITIZEN'S UNDIVIDED ALLEGIANCE TO THIS COUNTRY WITH A RESIDENT ALIEN'S POSSIBLE CONFLICT OF LOYALTIES.  FROM THIS, THE COMMITTEE CONCLUDES THAT A RESIDENT ALIEN LAWYER MIGHT IN THE EXERCISE OF HIS FUNCTIONS IGNORE HIS RESPONSIBILITIES TO THE COURTS OR EVEN HIS CLIENTS IN FAVOR OF THE INTEREST OF A FOREIGN POWER.

WE FIND THESE ARGUMENTS UNCONVINCING.  IT IN NO WAY DENIGRATES A LAWYER'S HIGH RESPONSIBILITIES TO OBSERVE THAT THE POWERS "TO SIGN WRITS AND SUBPOENAS, TAKE RECOGNIZANCES, (AND) ADMINISTER OATHS" HARDLY INVOLVE MATTERS OF STATE POLICY OR ACTS OF SUCH UNIQUE RESPONSIBILITY AS TO ENTRUST THEM ONLY TO CITIZENS.  NOR DO WE THINK THAT THE PRACTICE OF LAW OFFERS MEANINGFUL OPPORTUNITIES ADVERSELY TO AFFECT THE INTEREST OF THE UNITED STATES.  CERTAINLY THE COMMITTEE HAS FAILED TO SHOW THE RELEVANCE OF CITIZENSHIP TO ANY LIKELIHOOD THAT A LAWYER WILL FAIL TO PROTECT FAITHFULLY THE INTEREST OF HIS CLIENTS.  /14/

NOR WOULD THE POSSIBILITY THAT SOME RESIDENT ALIENS ARE UNSUITED TO THE PRACTICE OF LAW BE A JUSTIFICATION FOR A WHOLESALE BAN.

"EVEN IN APPLYING PERMISSIBLE STANDARDS, OFFICERS OF A STATE CANNOT EXCLUDE AN APPLICANT WHEN THERE IS NO BASIS FOR THEIR FINDING THAT HE FAILS TO MEET THESE STANDARDS, OR WHEN THEIR ACTION IS INVIDIOUSLY DISCRIMINATORY.  CF. YICK WO V. HOPKINS, 118 U. S. 356."  SCHWARE V. BOARD OF BAR EXAMINERS, 353 U. S., AT 239.

THIS CONSTITUTIONAL WARNING IS ESPECIALLY SALIENT WHERE, AS HERE, A STATE'S BAR ADMISSION STANDARDS MAKE EXPLICIT USE OF A SUSPECT CLASSIFICATION.  ALTHOUGH, AS WE HAVE ACKNOWLEDGED, A STATE DOES HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST IN THE QUALIFICATIONS OF THOSE ADMITTED TO THE PRACTICE OF LAW, THE ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY THE COMMITTEE FALL SHORT OF SHOWING THAT THE CLASSIFICATION ESTABLISHED BY RULE 8 (1) OF THE CONNECTICUT PRACTICE BOOK (1963) IS NECESSARY TO THE PROMOTING OR SAFEGUARDING OF THIS INTEREST.

CONNECTICUT HAS WIDE FREEDOM TO GAUGE ON A CASE-BY-CASE BASIS THE FITNESS OF AN APPLICANT TO PRACTICE LAW.  CONNECTICUT CAN, AND DOES, REQUIRE APPROPRIATE TRAINING AND FAMILIARITY WITH CONNECTICUT LAW.

APART FROM SUCH TESTS OF COMPETENCE, IT REQUIRES A NEW LAWYER TO TAKE BOTH AN "ATTORNEY'S OATH" TO PERFORM HIS FUNCTIONS FAITHFULLY AND HONESTLY /15/ AND A "COMMISSIONER'S OATH" TO "SUPPORT THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, AND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE OF CONNECTICUT."  /16/  APPELLANT HAS INDICATED HER WILLINGNESS AND ABILITY TO SUBSCRIBE TO THE SUBSTANCE OF BOTH OATHS, /17/  AND CONNECTICUT MAY QUITE PROPERLY CONDUCT A CHARACTER INVESTIGATION TO INSURE IN ANY GIVEN CASE "THAT AN APPLICANT IS NOT ONE WHO 'SWEARS TO AN OATH PRO FORMA WHILE DECLARING OR MANIFESTING HIS DISAGREEMENT WITH OR INDIFFERENCE TO THE OATH.'  BOND V. FLOYD, 385 U. S. 116, 132."  LAW STUDENTS RESEARCH COUNCIL V. WADMOND, 401 U. S., AT 164.  /18/ MOREOVER, ONCE ADMITTED TO THE BAR, LAWYERS ARE SUBJECT TO CONTINUING SCRUTINY BY THE ORGANIZED BAR AND THE COURTS.  IN ADDITION TO DISCIPLINE FOR UNPROFESSIONAL CONDUCT, THE RANGE OF POST-ADMISSION SANCTIONS EXTENDS FROM JUDGMENTS FOR CONTEMPT TO CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS AND DISBARMENT.  /19/  IN SUM, THE COMMITTEE SIMPLY HAS NOT ESTABLISHED THAT IT MUST EXCLUDE ALL ALIENS FROM THE PRACTICE OF LAW IN ORDER TO VINDICATE ITS UNDOUBTED INTEREST IN HIGH PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS.  /20/ III

IN ITS BRIEF, THE EXAMINING COMMITTEE MAKES ANOTHER, SOMEWHAT DIFFERENT ARGUMENT IN SUPPORT OF RULE 8 (1).  ITS THRUST IS NOT THAT RESIDENT ALIENS LACK THE ATTRIBUTES NECESSARY TO MAINTAIN HIGH STANDARDS IN THE LEGAL PROFESSION, BUT RATHER THAT LAWYERS MUST BE CITIZENS ALMOST AS A MATTER OF DEFINITION.  THE IMPLICATION OF THIS ANALYSIS IS THAT EXCLUSION OF ALIENS FROM THE LEGAL PROFESSION IS NOT SUBJECT TO ANY SCRUTINY UNDER THE EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE.

THE ARGUMENT BUILDS UPON THE EXCLUSION OF ALIENS FROM THE FRANCHISE IN ALL 50 STATES AND THEIR DISQUALIFICATION UNDER THE CONSTITUTION FROM HOLDING OFFICE AS PRESIDENT, ART. 2, ^ 1, CL. 5, OR AS A MEMBER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, ART. 1, ^ 2, CL. 2, OR OF THE SENATE, ART. 1, ^ 3, CL. 3.  THESE AND NUMEROUS OTHER FEDERAL AND STATUTORY AND CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS REFLECT, THE COMMITTEE CONTENDS, A PERVASIVE RECOGNITION THAT "PARTICIPATION IN THE GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE AS VOTERS AND OFFICE HOLDERS" IS INESCAPABLY AN ASPECT OF CITIZENSHIP.  BRIEF FOR APPELLEE 11.  OFFERED IN SUPPORT OF THE CLAIM THAT THE LAWYER IS AN "OFFICE HOLDER" IN THIS SENSE IS AN ENHANCED VERSION OF THE PROPOSITION, DISCUSSED ABOVE, THAT HE IS AN "OFFICER OF THE COURT."

SPECIFICALLY, THE COMMITTEE STATES THAT THE LAWYER "IS AN OFFICER OF THE COURT WHO ACTS BY AND WITH THE AUTHORITY OF THE STATE" AND IS ENTRUSTED WITH THE "EXERCISE OF ACTUAL GOVERNMENT POWER."  ID., AT 5.

WE NOTE AT THE OUTSET THAT THIS ARGUMENT GOES BEYOND THE OPINION OF THE CONNECTICUT SUPREME COURT, WHICH RECOGNIZED THAT A LAWYER IS NOT AN OFFICER IN THE ORDINARY SENSE.  162 CONN., AT 254, 294 A. 2D, AT 283.

THIS COMPORTS WITH THE VIEW OF THE COURT EXPRESSED BY MR. JUSTICE BLACK IN CAMMER V. UNITED STATES, 350 U. S. 399 (1956):

"IT HAS BEEN STATED MANY TIMES THAT LAWYERS ARE 'OFFICERS OF THE COURT.'  ONE OF THE MOST FREQUENTLY REPEATED STATEMENTS TO THIS EFFECT APPEARS IN EX PARTE GARLAND, 4 WALL.  333, 378.  THE COURT POINTED OUT THERE, HOWEVER, THAT AN ATTORNEY WAS NOT AN 'OFFICER' WITHIN THE ORDINARY MEANING OF THAT TERM.  CERTAINLY NOTHING THAT WAS SAID IN EX PARTE GARLAND OR IN ANY OTHER CASE DECIDED BY THIS COURT PLACES ATTORNEYS IN THE SAME CATEGORY AS MARSHALS, BAILIFFS, COURT CLERKS OR JUDGES.  UNLIKE THESE OFFICIALS A LAWYER IS ENGAGED IN A PRIVATE PROFESSION, IMPORTANT THOUGH IT BE TO OUR SYSTEM OF JUSTICE.  IN GENERAL HE MAKES HIS OWN DECISIONS, FOLLOWS HIS OWN BEST JUDGMENT, COLLECTS HIS OWN FEES AND RUNS HIS OWN BUSINESS.  THE WORD 'OFFICER' AS IT HAS ALWAYS BEEN APPLIED TO LAWYERS CONVEYS QUITE A DIFFERENT MEANING FROM THE WORD 'OFFICER' AS APPLIED TO PEOPLE SERVING AS OFFICERS WITHIN THE CONVENTIONAL MEANING OF THAT TERM."  ID., AT 405 (FOOTNOTE OMITTED).

LAWYERS DO INDEED OCCUPY PROFESSIONAL POSITIONS OF RESPONSIBILITY AND INFLUENCE THAT IMPOSE ON THEM DUTIES CORRELATIVE WITH THEIR VITAL RIGHT OF ACCESS TO THE COURTS.  MOREOVER, BY VIRTUE OF THEIR PROFESSIONAL APTITUDES AND NATURAL INTERESTS, LAWYERS HAVE BEEN LEADERS IN GOVERNMENT THROUGHOUT THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY.  YET, THEY ARE NOT OFFICIALS OF GOVERNMENT BY VIRTUE OF BEING LAWYERS.  NOR DOES THE STATUS OF HOLDING A LICENSE TO PRACTICE LAW PLACE ONE SO CLOSE TO THE CORE OF THE POLITICAL PROCESS AS TO MAKE HIM A FORMULATOR OF GOVERNMENT POLICY.  /21/

WE HOLD THAT ^ 8 (1) VIOLATES THE EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE.  /22/ THE JUDGMENT OF THE CONNECTICUT SUPREME COURT IS REVERSED, AND THE CASE IS REMANDED FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS NOT INCONSISTENT WITH THIS OPINION.

IT IS SO ORDERED.

/1/  APPELLANT IS ELIGIBLE FOR NATURALIZATION BY REASON OF HER MARRIAGE TO A CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES AND RESIDENCE IN THE UNITED STATES FOR MORE THAN THREE YEARS, 8 U.S.C. ^ 1430 (A).  SHE HAS NOT FILED A DECLARATION OF INTENTION TO BECOME A CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES, 8 U.S.C. ^ 1445 (F), AND HAS NO PRESENT INTENTION OF DOING SO. BRIEF FOR APPELLANT 4.  IN ORDER TO BECOME A CITIZEN, APPELLANT WOULD BE REQUIRED TO RENOUNCE HER CITIZENSHIP OF THE NETHERLANDS.  8 U.S.C. ^ 1448 (A).

/2/  THE RULES ARE PROMULGATED BY THE JUDGES OF THE SUPERIOR COURT, CONN. GEN. STAT. REV. ^ 51 - 80, AND ADMINISTERED BY THE CONNECTICUT BAR EXAMINING COMMITTEE.  THE POSITION OF THE STATE IN THIS CASE IS REPRESENTED BY THAT COMMITTEE.

/3/  BECAUSE WE FIND THAT THE RULE DENIES EQUAL PROTECTION, WE DO NOT REACH APPELLANT'S OTHER CLAIMS.

/4/  WE DO NOT, OF COURSE, RELY ON BRADWELL TO ESTABLISH THAT ADMISSION TO THE BAR MAY NOT BE MADE TO DEPEND ON CITIZENSHIP.  THE HOLDING OF THAT CASE WAS SIMPLY THAT THE RIGHT TO PRACTICE LAW IS NOT A "PRIVILEGE OR IMMUNITY" WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT.

/5/  SEE J. HIGHAM, STRANGERS IN THE LAND 46, 161, 183 (1963).  THE FULL SCALE OF RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED ON THE WORK OPPORTUNITIES OF ALIENS IN 1946 IS SHOWN BY M. KONVITZ, THE ALIEN AND THE ASIATIC IN AMERICAN LAW 190 - 211 (1946).

/6/  SEE ALSO PEOPLE V. CRANE, 214 N. Y. 154, 108 N. E. 427, AFF'D SUB NOM. CRANE V. NEW YORK, 239 U. S. 195 (1915); BUT SEE GRAHAM V. RICHARDSON, 403 U. S. 365, 374 (1971).

/7/  SEE LOWER COURT CASES COLLECTED AT NOTE, CONSTITUTIONALITY OF RESTRICTIONS ON ALIENS' RIGHT TO WORK, 57 COL. L. REV. 1012, 1021 - 1023 (1957) (RESTRICTIONS RANGING FROM THE VENDING OF SOFT DRINKS TO THE SELLING OF LIGHTNING RODS).

/8/  DISCRIMINATION OR SEGREGATION FOR ITS OWN SAKE IS NOT, OF COURSE, A CONSTITUTIONALLY PERMISSIBLE PURPOSE.  E. G., BROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATION, 347 (. S. 483, 495 (1954); MC LAUGHLIN V. FLORIDA, 379 U. S. 184 (1964).

/9/  THE STATE INTEREST REQUIRED HAS BEEN CHARACTERIZED AS "OVERRIDING," ID., AT 196; LOVING V. VIRGINIA, 388 U. S. 1, 11 (1967); "COMPELLING," GRAHAM V. RICHARDSON, SUPRA, AT 375; "IMPORTANT," DUNN V. BLUMSTEIN, 405 U. S. 330, 343 (1972), OR "SUBSTANTIAL," IBID.  WE ATTRIBUTE NO PARTICULAR SIGNIFICANCE TO THESE VARIATIONS IN DICTION.

/10/  MC LAUGHLIN V. FLORIDA, SUPRA, AT 196; CF. LOVING V. VIRGINIA SUPRA, AT 11.

/11/  WE DID NOT DECIDE IN GRAHAM NOR DO WE DECIDE HERE WHETHER SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES, SUCH AS ARMED HOSTILITIES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE COUNTRY OF WHICH AN ALIEN IS A CITIZEN, WOULD JUSTIFY THE USE OF A CLASSIFICATION BASED ON ALIENAGE.

/12/  APPELLANT DENIES THAT THIS WAS INDEED THE STATE'S PURPOSE IN REQUIRING CITIZENSHIP FOR THE PRACTICE OF LAW, NOTING THAT CITIZENSHIP IS ALSO REQUIRED OF PRACTITIONERS IN OTHER FIELDS, INCLUDING HAIRDRESSERS AND COSMETICIANS, CONN. GEN. STAT. REV. ^ 20 - 250, ARCHITECTS, CONN. GEN. STAT. REV. ^ 20 - 291, AND SANITARIANS, CONN. GEN. STAT. REV. ^ 20 - 361.  BECAUSE WE DISPOSE OF THE CASE ON OTHER GROUNDS, WE DO NOT REACH THIS CLAIM.

/13/  IN THIS CONNECTION, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER WROTE:

"FROM A PROFESSION CHARGED WITH SUCH RESPONSIBILITIES THERE MUST BE EXACTED THOSE QUALITIES OF TRUTH-SPEAKING, OF A HIGH SENSE OF HONOR, OF GRANITE DISCRETION, OF THE STRICTEST OBSERVANCE OF FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY, THAT HAVE, THROUGHOUT THE CENTURIES, BEEN COMPENDIOUSLY DESCRIBED AS 'MORAL CHARACTER.'"  SCHWARE V. BOARD OF BAR EXAMINERS, 353 U. S. 232, 247 (1957) (CONCURRING OPINION).

/14/  LAWYERS FREQUENTLY REPRESENT FOREIGN COUNTRIES AND THE NATIONALS OF SUCH COUNTRIES IN LITIGATION IN THE COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES, AS WELL AS IN OTHER MATTERS IN THIS COUNTRY.  IN SUCH REPRESENTATION, THE DUTY OF THE LAWYER, SUBJECT TO HIS ROLE AS AN "OFFICER OF THE COURT," IS TO FURTHER THE INTERESTS OF HIS CLIENTS BY ALL LAWFUL MEANS, EVEN WHEN THOSE INTERESTS ARE IN CONFLICT WITH THE INTERESTS OF THE UNITED STATES OR OF A STATE.  BUT THIS REPRESENTATION INVOLVES NO CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN THE INVIDIOUS SENSE.  RATHER, IT CASTS THE LAWYER IN HIS HONORED AND TRADITIONAL ROLE AS AN AUTHORIZED BUT INDEPENDENT AGENT ACTING TO VINDICATE THE LEGAL RIGHTS OF A CLIENT, WHOEVER IT MAY BE.  IT IS CONCEIVABLE THAT AN ALIEN LICENSED TO PRACTICE LAW IN THIS COUNTRY COULD FIND HIMSELF IN A POSITION IN WHICH HE MIGHT BE CALLED UPON TO REPRESENT HIS COUNTRY OF CITIZENSHIP AGAINST THE UNITED STATES IN CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH THERE MAY BE A CONFLICT BETWEEN HIS OBLIGATIONS TO THE TWO COUNTRIES.  IN SUCH RARE SITUATIONS, AN HONORABLE PERSON, WHETHER AN ALIEN OR NOT, WOULD DECLINE THE REPRESENTATION.

/15/  THE TEXT OF THE ATTORNEY'S OATHS IS AS FOLLOWS:

"YOU SOLEMNLY SWEAR THAT YOU WILL DO NO FALSEHOOD, NOR CONSENT TO ANY TO BE DONE IN COURT, AND, IF YOU KNOW OF ANY TO BE DONE, YOU WILL GIVE INFORMATION THEREOF TO THE JUDGES, OR ONE OF THEM, THAT IT MAY BE REFORMED; YOU WILL NOT WITTINGLY, OR WILLINGLY PROMOTE, SUE OR CAUSE TO BE SUED, ANY FALSE OF UNLAWFUL SUIT, OR GIVE AID, OR CONSENT, TO THE SAME; YOU WILL DELAY NO MAN FOR LUCRE OR MALICE; BUT WILL EXERCISE THE OFFICE OF ATTORNEY, WITHIN THE COURT WHEREIN YOU MAY PRACTICE, ACCORDING TO THE BEST OF YOUR LEARNING AND DISCRETION, AND WITH FIDELITY, AS WELL TO THE COURT AS TO YOUR CLIENT, SO HELP YOU GOD."

JURISDICTIONAL STATEMENT 44.

/16/  THERE IS NO QUESTION AS TO THE VALIDITY OF REQUIRING AN APPLICANT, AS A PRECONDITION TO ADMISSION TO THE BAR, TO TAKE SUCH AN OATH.  LAW STUDENTS RESEARCH COUNCIL V. WADMOND, 401 U. S. 154, 161 - 164 (1970).

/17/ BECAUSE THE COMMISSIONER'S OATH IS AN OATH TO "SUPPORT THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, AND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE OF CONNECTICUT, SO LONG AS YOU CONTINUE A CITIZEN THEREOF," CONN. GEN. STAT. REV. ^ 1 - 25 (EMPHASIS ADDED), APPELLANT COULD NOT OF COURSE TAKE THE OATH AS PRESCRIBED.  TO THE EXTENT THAT THE OATH REITERATES RULE 8 (1)'S CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENT, IT SHARES THE SAME CONSTITUTIONAL DEFECTS WHEN REQUIRED OF PROSPECTIVE MEMBERS OF THE BAR.

/18/  WE FIND NO MERIT IN THE CONTENTION THAT ONLY CITIZENS CAN IN GOOD CONSCIENCE TAKE AN OATH TO SUPPORT THE CONSTITUTION.  WE NOTE THAT ALL PERSONS INDUCTED INTO THE ARMED SERVICES, INCLUDING RESIDENT ALIENS, ARE REQUIRED BY 10 U.S.C. ^ 502 TO TAKE THE FOLLOWING OATH:

"I, -- , DO SOLEMNLY SWEAR (OR AFFIRM) THAT I WILL SUPPORT AND DEFEND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES AGAINST ALL ENEMIES, FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC; THAT I WILL BEAR TRUE FAITH AND ALLEGIANCE TO THE SAME; AND THAT I WILL OBEY THE ORDERS OF THE OFFICERS APPOINTED OVER ME, ACCORDING TO REGULATIONS AND THE UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.

SO HELP ME GOD."

IF ALIENS CAN TAKE THIS OATH WHEN THE NATION IS MAKING USE OF THEIR SERVICES IN THE NATIONAL DEFENSE, RESIDENT ALIEN APPLICANTS FOR ADMISSION TO THE BAR SURELY CANNOT BE PRECLUDED, AS A CLASS, FROM TAKING AN OATH TO SUPPORT THE CONSTITUTION ON THE THEORY THAT THEY ARE UNABLE TO TAKE THE OATH IN GOOD FAITH.

/19/  SEE, E. G., DOOLITTLE V. CLARK, 47 CONN. 316 (1879).  APART FROM THE COURTS, THE PROFESSION ITSELF HAS LONG SUBJECTED ITS MEMBERS TO DISCIPLINE UNDER CODES OR CANONS OF PROFESSIONAL ETHICS.  AS EARLY AS 1908 THE AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION ADOPTED 32 CANONS OF PROFESSIONAL ETHICS.  IN 1970, FOLLOWING SEVERAL YEARS OF STUDY AND REEXAMINATION, THE HOUSE OF DELEGATES OF THE AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION APPROVED A NEW CODE OF PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY, WHICH PROVIDES DETAILED ETHICAL PRESCRIPTIONS AS WELL AS A COMPREHENSIVE CODE OF DISCIPLINARY RULES.

THE ABA CODE OF PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY HAS SINCE BEEN APPROVED AND ADOPTED IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA AND IN 46 STATES, INCLUDING CONNECTICUT.

/20/  NOTHING IN OUR RULES PROHIBITS FROM ADMISSION TO PRACTICE IN THIS COURT RESIDENT ALIENS WHO HAVE BEEN ADMITTED TO PRACTICE "FOR THREE YEARS PAST IN THE HIGHEST COURT OF A STATE, TERRITORY, DISTRICT, COMMONWEALTH, OR POSSESSION" AND WHOSE "PRIVATE AND PROFESSIONAL CHARACTERS SHALL APPEAR TO BE GOOD."  RULE 5, RULES OF THE SUPREME COURT.

/21/  BECAUSE THE COMMITTEE HAS FAILED TO ESTABLISH THAT THE LAWYER IS AN "OFFICE HOLDER," WE NEED NOT AND DO NOT DECIDE WHETHER THERE IS MERIT IN THE GENERAL ARGUMENT AND, IF SO, TO WHAT OFFICES IT WOULD APPLY.

/22/  IN A THOUGHTFUL OPINION, THE CALIFORNIA SUPREME COURT UNANIMOUSLY DECLARED UNCONSTITUTIONAL A SIMILAR CALIFORNIA RULE.

RAFFAELLI V. COMMITTEE OF BAR EXAMINERS, 7 CAL. 3D 288, 496 P. 2D 1264 (1972).  SEE ALSO APPLICATION OF PARK, 484 P. 2D 690 (ALASKA 1971).

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, DISSENTING.

THE COURT IN THESE TWO CASES HOLDS THAT AN ALIEN IS NOT REALLY DIFFERENT FROM A CITIZEN, AND THAT ANY LEGISLATIVE CLASSIFICATION ON THE BASIS OF ALIENAGE IS "INHERENTLY SUSPECT".  THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT, THE EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE OF WHICH THE COURT INTERPRETS AS INVALIDATING THE STATE LEGISLATION HERE INVOLVED, CONTAINS NO LANGUAGE CONCERNING "INHERENTLY SUSPECT CLASSIFICATIONS," OR, FOR THAT MATTER, MERELY "SUSPECT CLASSIFICATIONS."  THE PRINCIPAL PURPOSE OF THOSE WHO DRAFTED AND ADOPTED THE AMENDMENT WAS TO PROHIBIT THE STATES FROM INVIDIOUSLY DISCRIMINATING BY REASON OF RACE, SLAUGHTERHOUSE CASES, 16 WALL.  36 (1873), AND, BECAUSE OF THIS PLAINLY MANIFESTED INTENT, CLASSIFICATIONS BASED ON RACE HAVE RIGHTLY BEEN HELD "SUSPECT" UNDER THE AMENDMENT.  BUT THERE IS NO LANGUAGE USED IN THE AMENDMENT, OR ANY HISTORICAL EVIDENCE AS TO THE INTENT OF THE FRAMERS, WHICH WOULD SUGGEST TO THE SLIGHTEST DEGREE THAT IT WAS INTENDED TO RENDER ALIENAGE A "SUSPECT" CLASSIFICATION, THAT IT WAS DESIGNED IN ANY WAY TO PROTECT "DISCRETE AND INSULAR MINORITIES" OTHER THAN RACIAL MINORITIES, OR THAT IT WOULD IN ANY WAY JUSTIFY THE RESULT REACHED BY THE COURT IN THESE TWO CASES.

TWO FACTUAL CONSIDERATIONS DESERVE MORE EMPHASIS THAN ACCORDED BY THE COURT'S OPINIONS.  FIRST, THE RECORDS IN NOS. 71 - 1222 AND 71 - 1336 CONTAIN NO INDICATION THAT THE ALIENS SUFFERED ANY DISABILITY THAT PRECLUDED THEM, EITHER AS A GROUP OR INDIVIDUALLY, FROM APPLYING FOR AND BEING GRANTED THE STATUS OF NATURALIZED CITIZENS.  THE APPELLEES IN NO. 71 - 1222, AS FAR AS THE RECORD DISCLOSES, TOOK NO STEPS TO OBTAIN CITIZENSHIP OR INDICATE ANY AFFIRMATIVE DESIRE TO BECOME CITIZENS.  IN NO. 71 - 1336, APPELLANT WAS ELIGIBLE FOR NATURALIZATION BUT "ELECTED TO REMAIN A CITIZEN OF THE NETHERLANDS,"  162 CONN. 249, 250, 294 A. 2D 281, 282, AND DELIBERATELY CHOSE NOT TO FILE A DECLARATION OF INTENT UNDER 8 U.S.C. ^^ 1427 (F), 1430 (A).  THE "STATUS" OF THESE INDIVIDUALS WAS NOT, THEREFORE, ONE WITH WHICH THEY WERE FOREVER ENCUMBERED; THEY COULD TAKE STEPS TO ALTER IT WHEN AND IF THEY CHOSE.

/1/

SECOND, THE APPELLEES IN NO. 71 - 1222 ALL SOUGHT TO BE EMPLOYEES OF ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCIES OF THE NEW YORK CITY GOVERNMENT.  OF THE 20 MEMBERS OF THE CLASS REPRESENTED BY THE NAMED APPELLEES, THREE WERE TYPISTS, ONE A "SENIOR CLERK," TWO "HUMAN RESOURCES TECHNICIANS," THREE "SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCES TECHNICIANS," SIX "HUMAN RESOURCE SPECIALISTS," THREE "SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALISTS," AND TWO "SUPERVISING HUMAN RESOURCE SPECIALIST."  THE RECORD DOES NOT REVEAL WHAT FUNCTIONS ARE PERFORMED BY THESE CIVIL SERVANTS, ALTHOUGH APPELLEE DOUGAL APPARENTLY WAS THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATOR OF A PROGRAM; THE REMAINING APPELLEES WERE ALL EMPLOYEES OF THE NEW YORK CITY HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION, THE GOVERNMENTAL BODY WITH NUMEROUS EMPLOYEES WHICH ADMINISTERS MANY TYPES OF SOCIAL WELFARE PROGRAMS, SPENDING A GREAT DEAL OF MONEY AND DEALING CONSTANTLY WITH THE PUBLIC AND OTHER ARMS OF THE FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.              I

THE COURT, BY HOLDING IN THESE CASES AND IN GRAHAM V. RICHARDSON, 403 U. S. 365 (1971), THAT A CITIZEN-ALIEN CLASSIFICATION IS "SUSPECT" IN THE EYES OF OUR CONSTITUTION, FAILS TO MENTION, LET ALONE RATIONALIZE, THE FACT THAT THE CONSTITUTION ITSELF RECOGNIZES A BASIC DIFFERENCE BETWEEN CITIZENS AND ALIENS.  THAT DISTINCTION IS CONSTITUTIONALLY IMPORTANT IN NO LESS THAN 11 INSTANCES IN A POLITICAL DOCUMENT NOTED FOR ITS BREVITY.  REPRESENTATIVES, U. S. CONST. ART. I, ^ 2, CL. 2, AND SENATORS, ART. I, ^ 3, CL. 3, MUST BE CITIZENS.

CONGRESS HAS THE AUTHORITY "(TO ESTABLISH AN UNIFORM RULE OF NATURALIZATION" BY WHICH ALIENS CAN BECOME CITIZEN MEMBERS OF OUR SOCIETY, ART. I, ^ 8, CL. 4; THE JUDICIAL AUTHORITY OF THE FEDERAL COURTS EXTENDS TO SUITS INVOLVING CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES "AND FOREIGN STATES, CITIZENS OR SUBJECTS," ART. III, ^ 2, CL. 1, BECAUSE SOMEHOW THE PARTIES ARE "DIFFERENT," A DISTINCTION FURTHER MADE BY THE ELEVENTH AMENDMENT; THE FIFTEENTH, NINETEENTH, TWENTY-FOURTH, AND TWENTY-SIXTH AMENDMENTS ARE RELEVANT ONLY TO "CITIZENS."  THE PRESIDENT MUST NOT ONLY BE A CITIZEN BUT "A NATURAL BORN CITIZEN," ART. II, ^ 1, CL. 5.  ONE MIGHT SPECULATE WHAT MEANING ART. IV, ^ 2, CL. 1, HAS TODAY.

NOT ONLY DO THE NUMEROUS CLASSIFICATIONS ON THE BASIS OF CITIZENSHIP THAT ARE SET FORTH IN THE CONSTITUTION CURB AGAINST BOTH THE ANALYSIS USED AND THE RESULTS REACHED BY THE COURT IN THESE CASES; THE VERY AMENDMENT WHICH THE COURT READS TO PROHIBIT CLASSIFICATIONS BASED ON CITIZENSHIP ESTABLISHES THE VERY DISTINCTION WHICH THE COURT NOW CONDEMNS AS "SUSPECT."  THE FIRST SENTENCE OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT PROVIDES:

ALL PERSONS BORN OR NATURALIZED IN THE UNITED STATES AND SUBJECT TO THE JURISDICTION THEREOF, ARE CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES AND OF THE STATE WHEREIN THEY RESIDE."

IN CONSTITUTIONALLY DEFINING WHO IS A CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES, CONGRESS OBVIOUSLY THOUGHT IT WAS DOING SOMETHING, AND SOMETHING IMPORTANT.  CITIZENSHIP MEANT SOMETHING, A STATUS IN AND RELATIONSHIP WITH A SOCIETY WHICH IS CONTINUING AND MORE BASIC THAN MERE PRESENCE OR RESIDENCE.  THE LANGUAGE OF THAT AMENDMENT CAREFULLY DISTINGUISHES BETWEEN "PERSONS" WHO, WHETHER BY BIRTH OR NATURALIZATION, HAD ACHIEVED A CERTAIN STATUS, AND "PERSONS" IN GENERAL.  THAT A "CITIZEN" WAS CONSIDERED BY CONGRESS TO BE A RATIONALLY DISTINCT SUBCLASS OF ALL "PERSONS" IS OBVIOUS FROM THE LANGUAGE OF THE AMENDMENT.

IT IS UNNECESSARY TO VENTURE INTO A DETAILED DISCUSSION OF WHAT CONGRESS INTENDED BY THE CITIZENSHIP CLAUSE OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT.  THE PARAMOUNT REASON WAS TO AMEND THE CONSTITUTION SO AS TO OVERRULE EXPLICITLY THE DRED SCOTT DECISION.  SCOTT V. SANDFORD, 19 HOW.  393 (1857).  OUR DECISIONS CONSTRUING "THE PRIVILEGES OR IMMUNITIES OF CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES" ARE NOT IRRELEVANT TO THE QUESTION NOW BEFORE THE COURT, INSOFAR AS THEY RECOGNIZE THAT THERE ARE ATTRIBUTES PECULIAR TO THE STATUS OF FEDERAL CITIZENSHIP.  SEE, E. G. SLAUGHTERHOUSE CASES, 16 WALL., AT 79; UNITED STATES V. CRUIKSHANK, 92 U. S. 542 (1876); EX PARTE YARBROUGH, 110 U. S. 651 (1884); CRUTCHER V. KENTUCKY, 141 U. S. 47 (1891); LOGAN V. UNITED STATES, 144 U. S. 263 (1892); IN RE QUARLES, 158 U. S. 532 (1895).  CF. CRANDALL V. NEVADA, 6 WALL.  35 (1868).  DECISIONS OF THIS COURT HOLDING THAT AN ALIEN IS A "PERSON" WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT ARE SIMPLY IRRELEVANT TO THE QUESTION OF WHETHER THAT AMENDMENT PROHIBITS LEGISLATIVE CALSSIFICATIONS BASED UPON THIS PARTICULAR STATUS.  SINCE THAT AMENDMENT BY ITS OWN TERMS FIRST DEFINED THOSE WHO HAD THE STATUS AS A LESSER INCLUDED CLASS OF ALL "PERSONS," THE COURT'S FAILURE TO ARTICULATE WHY SUCH CLASSIFICATIONS UNDER THE SAME AMENDMENT ARE NOW FORBIDDEN SERVES ONLY TO ILLUMINATE THE ABSENCE OF ANY CONSTITUTIONAL FOUNDATION FOR THESE INSTANT DECISIONS.

THIS COURT HAS HELD TIME AND AGAIN THAT LEGISLATIVE CLASSIFICATIONS ON THE BASIS OF CITIZENSHIP WERE SUBJECT TO THE RATIONAL-BASIS TEST OF EQUAL PROTECTION, AND THAT THE JUSTIFICATIONS THEN ADVANCED FOR THE LEGISLATION WERE RATIONAL.  SEE CLARKE V. DECKEBACH, 274 U. S. 392 (1927); TERRACE V. THOMPSON, 263 U. S. 197 (1923); PORTERFIELD V. WEBB, 263 U. S. 225 (1923); WEBB V. O'BRIEN, 263 U. S. 313 (1923); FRICK V. WEBB, 263 U. S. 326 (1923); PATSONE V. PENNSYLVANIA, 232 U. S. 138 (1914); BLYTHE V. HINCKLEY, 180 U. S. 333 (1901); HAUENSTEIN V. LYNHAM, 100 U. S. 483 (1880).

THIS COURT EXPLICITLY HELD THAT IT WAS NOT A VIOLATION OF THE EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE FOR A STATE BY STATUTE TO LIMIT EMPLOYMENT ON PUBLIC PROJECTS TO CITIZENS.  HEIM V. MC CALL, 239 U. S. 175 (1915); CRANE V. NEW YORK, 239 U. S. 195 (1915).  EVEN IF THE COURT NOW CONSIDERS THAT THE JUSTIFICATIONS FOR THOSE ENACTMENTS ARE "NOT CONTROLLING,"  THOSE DECISIONS CLEARLY HOLD THAT THE RATIONAL-BASIS TEST APPLIES.

TO REJECT THE METHODOLOGICAL APPROACH OF THESE DECISIONS, THE COURT NOW RELIES IN PART ON THE DECISIONS IN TRUAX V. RAICH, 239 U. S. 33 (1915), AND TAKAHASHI V. FISH COMM'N, 334 U. S. 410 (1948).

IN TRUAX, SUPRA, THE COURT INVALIDATED A STATE STATUTE WHICH PROHIBITED EMPLOYERS OF MORE THAN FIVE PERSONS FROM EMPLOYING MORE THAN 20% NONCITIZENS.  THE LAW WAS APPLICABLE TO ALL BUSINESSES.  IN HOLDING THAT THE LAW WAS INVALID UNDER THE EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE, THE COURT TOOK PAINS TO EXPLAIN THAT THE DECISION WAS NOT MEANT TO DISTURB PRIOR HOLDINGS, ID., AT 39, AND SPECIFICALLY NOTED THAT "IT SHOULD BE ADDED THAT THE ACT IS NOT LIMITED TO PERSONS WHO ARE ENGAGED ON PUBLIC WORK OR RECEIVE THE BENEFIT OF PUBLIC MONEYS."  ID., AT 40.  INDEED, HEIM AND CRANE WERE DECIDED AFTER TRUAX, AS WAS CLARKE, WHICH HELD THAT A STATE COULD CONSTITUTIONALLY PROHIBIT ALIENS FROM ENGAGING IN CERTAIN TYPES OF BUSINESSES.  IF ANYTHING, TRUAX WAS LIMITED BY THESE LATER DECISIONS.

TAKAHASHI, SUPRA, INVOLVED A STATUTE WHICH PROHIBITED ALIENS "INELIGIBLE FOR CITIZENSHIP" UNDER FEDERAL LAW FROM RECEIVING COMMERCIAL FISHING LICENSES.  A STATE WHOSE CLASSIFICATION ON THE BASIS OF RACE WOULD HAVE BEEN LEGITIMATELY "SUSPECT" UNDER THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT WAS IN EFFECT USING CONGRESS' POWER TO CLASSIFY IN GRANTING OR WITHHOLDING CITIZENSHIP.  THE COURT DID NOT COUNTENANCE THIS ATTEMPT AT DISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF RACE "BY INCORPORATION."  TWO FEATURES OF THAT LAW SHOULD BE NOTED.  FIRST, THE STATUTORY CLASSIFICATION WAS NOT ONE INVOLVING CITIZENS AND ALIENS; IT CLASSIFIED CITIZENS AND THOSE RESIDENT ALIENS ELIGIBLE FOR CITIZENSHIP INTO ONE GROUP, AND RESIDENT ALIENS INELIGIBLE FOR CITIZENSHIP INTO ANOTHER.  NO REAS FOR DISCRIMINATING AMONG RESIDENT ALIENS IS APPARENT.  SECOND, AND MOST IMPORTANT, IS THE FACT THAT, ALTHOUGH THE COURT PROPERLY REFUSED TO INQUIRE INTO THE LEGISLATIVE MOTIVE, THE OVERWHELMING EFFECT OF THE LAW WAS TO BAR RESIDENT ALIENS OF JAPANESE ANCESTRY FROM PROCURING FISHING LICENSES.  THE COURT WAS NOT BLIND TO THIS FACT, OR TO HISTORY.  SEE 334 U. S., AT 412 N. L, 413.  THE STATE STATUTE THAT CLASSIFIES ALIENS ON THE BASIS OF COUNTRY OF ORIGIN IS MUCH MORE LIKELY TO CLASSIFY ON THE BASIS OF RACE, AND THUS CONFLICT WITH THE CORE PURPOSE OF THE EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE, THAN A STATUTE THAT, AS HERE, MERELY DISTINGUISHES BETWEEN ALIENAGE AS SUCH AND CITIZENSHIP AS SUCH.

TAKAHASHI DID NOT, HOWEVER, OVERRULE PREVIOUS DECISIONS, AND CERTAINLY ANNOUNCED NO "SUSPECT CLASSIFICATION" RULE WITH REGARD TO CITIZEN-ALIEN CLASSIFICATIONS.  TO SAY THAT IT DID EVADES RATHER THAN CONFRONTS PRECEDENT.

THE THIRD, AND APPARENTLY PARAMOUNT, "DECISION" UPON WHICH THE COURT RELIED IN GRAHAM, AND WHICH IS MERELY QUOTED IN THE INSTANT DECISIONS, IS A FOOTNOTE FROM UNITED STATES V. CAROLENE PRODUCTS CO., 304 U. S. 144 (1938), A CASE INVOLVING A FEDERAL STATUTE PROHIBITING THE INTERSTATE SHIPMENT OF FILLED MILK.  THAT FOOTNOTE DISCUSSED THE PRESUMPTION OF CONSTITUTIONALITY OF STATUTES AND STATED:

"NOR NEED WE ENQUIRE WHETHER SIMILAR CONSIDERATIONS ENTER INTO THE REVIEW OF STATUTES DIRECTED AT PARTICULAR RELIGIOUS, PIERCE V. SOCIETY OF SISTERS, 268 U. S. 510, OR NATIONAL, MEYER V. NEBRASKA, 262 U. S. 390; BARTELS V. IOWA, 262 U. S. 404; FARRINGTON V. TOKUSHIGE, 273 U. S. 284, OR RACIAL MINORITIES, NIXON V. HERNDON, (273 U. S. 536); NIXON V. CONDON, (286 U. S. 73); WHETHER PREJUDICE AGAINST DISCRETE AND INSULAR MINORITIES MAY BE A SPECIAL CONDITION, WHICH TENDS SERIOUSLY TO CURTAIL THE OPERATION OF THOSE POLITICAL PROCESSES ORDINARILY TO BE RELIED UPON TO PROTECT MINORITIES, AND WHICH MAY CALL FOR A CORRESPONDINGLY MORE SEARCHING JUDICIAL INQUIRY."  ID., AT 152 - 153, N. 4.

ON THE "AUTHORITY" OF THIS FOOTNOTE, WHICH ONLY FOUR MEMBERS OF THE COURT IN CAROLENE PRODUCTS JOINED, THE COURT IN GRAHAM MERELY STATED THAT "CLASSIFICATIONS BASED ON ALIENAGE . . . ARE INHERENTLY SUSPECT" BECAUSE "(ALIENS AS A CLASS ARE A PRIME EXAMPLE OF A 'DISCRETE AND INSULAR' MINORITY . . . FOR WHOM SUCH HEIGHTENED JUDICIAL SOLICITUDE IS APPROPRIATE."  403 U. S., AT 372.

AS MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER SO APTLY OBSERVED:

"A FOOTNOTE HARDLY SEEMS TO BE AN APPROPRIATE WAY OF ANNOUNCING A NEW CONSTITUTIONAL DOCTRINE, AND THE COROLENE FOOTNOTE DID NOT PURPORT TO ANNOUNCE ANY NEW DOCTRINE . . . ."  KOVACS V. COOPER, 336 U. S. 77, 90 - 91 (1949) (CONCURRING OPINION).

EVEN IF THAT JUDICIAL APPROACH WERE ACCEPTED, HOWEVER, THE COURT IS CONSPICUOUSLY SILENT AS TO WHY THAT "DOCTRINE" SHOULD APPLY TO THESE CASES.

THE FOOTNOTE ITSELF DID NOT REFER TO "SEARCHING JUDICIAL INQUIRY" WHEN A CLASSIFICATION IS BASED ON ALIENAGE, PERHAPS BECAUSE THERE WAS A LONG LINE OF AUTHORITY HOLDING SUCH CLASSIFICATIONS ENTIRELY CONSONANT WITH THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT.  THE "NATIONAL" CATEGORY MENTIONED INVOLVED LEGISLATIVE ATTEMPTS TO PROHIBIT EDUCATION IN LANGUAGES OTHER THAN ENGLISH, WHICH ATTEMPTS WERE HELD UNCONSTITUTIONAL AS A DEPRIVATION OF "LIBERTY" WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE FOURTEENTH AND FIFTH AMENDMENTS.  THESE CASES DO NOT MENTION A "CITIZEN-ALIEN" DISTINCTION, NOR DO THEY SUPPORT A REASONING THAT "NATIONALITY" IS THE SAME AS "ALIENAGE."

THE MERE RECITATION OF THE WORDS "INSULAR AND DISCRETE MINORITY" IS HARDLY A CONSTITUTIONAL REASON FOR PROHIBITING STATE LEGISLATIVE CLASSIFICATIONS SUCH AS ARE INVOLVED HERE, AND IS NOT NECESSARILY CONSISTENT WITH THE THEORY PROPOUNDED IN THAT FOOTNOTE.  THE APPROACH TAKEN IN GRAHAM AND THESE CASES APPEARS TO BE THAT WHENEVER THE COURT FEELS THAT A SOCIETAL GROUP IS "DISCRETE AND INSULAR," IT HAS THE CONSTITUTIONAL MANDATE TO PROHIBIT LEGISLATION THAT SOMEHOW TREATS THE GROUP DIFFERENTLY FROM SOME OTHER GROUP.

OUR SOCIETY, CONSISTING OF OVER 200 MILLION INDIVIDUALS OF MULTITUDINOUS ORIGINS, CUSTOMS, TONGUES, BELIEFS, AND CULTURES IS, TO SAY THE LEAST, DIVERSE.  IT WOULD HARDLY TAKE EXTRAORDINARY INGENUITY FOR A LAWYER TO FIND 'INSULAR AND DISCRETE' MINORITIES AT EVERY TURN IN THE ROAD.  YET, UNLESS THE COURT CAN PRECISELY DEFINE AND CONSTITUTIONALLY JUSTIFY BOTH THE TERMS AND ANALYSIS IT USES, THESE DECISIONS TODAY STAND FOR THE PROPOSITION THAT THE COURT CAN CHOOSE A "MINORITY" IT "FEELS" DESERVES "SOLICITUDE" AND THEREAFTER PROHIBIT THE STATES FROM CLASSIFYING THAT "MINORITY" DIFFERENTLY FROM THE "MAJORITY."  I CANNOT FIND, AND THE COURT DOES NOT CITE, ANY CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY FOR SUCH A "WARD OF THE COURT" APPROACH TO EQUAL PROTECTION.

THE ONLY OTHER APPARENT RATIONALE FOR THE INVOCATION OF THE "SUSPECT CLASSIFICATION" APPROACH IN THESE CASES IS THAT ALIENAGE IS A "STATUS," AND THE COURT DOES NOT FEEL IT "APPROPRIATE" TO CLASSIFY ON THAT BASIS.  THIS RATIONALE WOULD APPEAR TO BE SIMILAR TO THAT UTILIZED IN WEBER V. AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO., 406 U. S. 164 (1972), IN WHICH THE COURT CITED, WITHOUT DISCUSSION, GRAHAM.  ID., AT 176 N. 14.  BUT THERE IS A MARKED DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A STATUS OR CONDITION SUCH AS ILLEGITIMACY, NATIONAL ORIGIN, OR RACE, WHICH CANNOT BE ALTERED BY AN INDIVIDUAL AND THE "STATUS" OF THE APPELLANT IN NO. 71 - 1336 OR OF HE APPELLEES IN NO. 71 - 1222.  THERE IS NOTHING IN THE RECORD INDICATING THAT THEIR STATUS AS ALIENS CANNOT BE CHANGED BY THEIR AFFIRMATIVE ACTS.

II

IN MY VIEW, THE PROPER JUDICIAL INQUIRY IS WHETHER ANY RATIONAL JUSTIFICATION EXISTS FOR PROHIBITING ALIENS FROM EMPLOYMENT IN THE COMPETITIVE CIVIL SERVICE AND FROM ADMISSION TO A STATE BAR.

"STATE LEGISLATURES ARE PRESUMED TO HAVE ACTED WITHIN THEIR CONSTITUTIONAL POWER DESPITE THE FACT THAT, IN PRACTICE, THEIR LAWS RESULT IN SOME INEQUALITY.  A STATUTORY DISCRIMINATION WILL NOT BE SET ASIDE IF ANY STATE OF FACTS REASONABLY MAY BE CONCEIVED TO JUSTIFY IT."  MC GOWAN V. MARYLAND, 366 U. S. 420, 425 - 426 (1961).

BEFORE DISCUSSING THIS QUESTION, A PRELIMINARY REFLECTION ON THE COURT'S OPINIONS IS WARRANTED.  PERHAPS THE PORTIONS OF THE OPINIONS THAT WOULD MOST DISTURB NATIVE-BORN CITIZENS AND ESPECIALLY NATURALIZED CITIZENS WHO HAVE WORKED DILIGENTLY TO LEARN ABOUT OUR HISTORY, MORES, AND POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS AND WHO HAVE SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED THE RIGOROUS PROCESS OF NATURALIZATION, IS THE INTIMATION, IF NOT STATEMENT, THAT THEY ARE REALLY NOT ANY DIFFERENT FROM ALIENS.  THE COURT CONCLUDES THAT, BECAUSE ALIENS RESIDING IN OUR COUNTRY MUST PAY TAXES AND SOME OF THEM (BUT NOT APPELLANT IN NO. 71 - 1336) MIGHT AT ONE TIME HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO SERVICE IN THE ARMED FORCES, THE TWO "GROUPS" ARE INDISTINGUISHABLE FOR PURPOSES OF EQUAL PROTECTION ANALYSIS.  COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE HAS BEEN ENDED BY CONGRESS.  /2/ GIVEN THE UBIQUITY OF TAXES IN OUR PRESENT SOCIETY, IT IS, IN MY OPINION, TOTALLY UNCONVINCING TO ATTRIBUTE TO THEIR PAYMENT THE LEVELING SIGNIFICANCE INDICATED BY THE COURT.  IS AN ALIEN WHO, AFTER ARRIVING FROM ABROAD IN NEW YORK CITY, IMMEDIATELY PURCHASES A PACK OF CIGARETTES, THEREBY PAYING FEDERAL, STATE, AND CITY TAXES, REALLY NO DIFFERENT FROM A CITIZEN?     THE OPINION OF THE COURT IN NO. 71 - 1222 WOULD APPEAR TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION IN THE NEGATIVE, BUT IT THEN PROCEEDS TO STATE THAT THERE IS A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ALIENS AND CITIZENS FOR PURPOSES OF PARTICIPATION AND SERVICE IN THE POLITICAL ARENAS.  UNLESS THE COURT MEANS THAT CITIZENSHIP ONLY HAS MEANING IN A POLITICAL CONTEXT, THE ANALYTICAL APPROACH OF THE COURT IS LESS THAN CLEAR, HARDLY CONVINCING, AND CURIOUSLY CONFLICTS WITH THE HIGH NONPOLITICAL VALUE THAT THE COURT HAS HERETOFORE ASCRIBED TO CITIZENSHIP.  IF CITIZENSHIP IS NOT "SPECIAL," THE COURT HAS WASTED A GREAT DEAL OF EFFORT IN THE PAST.  CF. AFROYIM V. RUSK, 387 U. S. 253 (1967); TROP V. DULLES, 356 U. S. 86 (1958).

THESE STATUTES DO NOT CLASSIFY ON THE BASIS OF COUNTRY OF ORIGIN; THE DISTINCTIONS ARE NOT BETWEEN NATIVE AMERICANS AND "FOREIGNERS," BUT BETWEEN CITIZENS AND ALIENS.  THE PROCESS OF NATURALIZATION WAS SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED BY CONGRESS TO REQUIRE A FOREIGN NATIONAL TO DEMONSTRATE THAT HE OR SHE IS FAMILIAR WITH THE HISTORY, TRADITIONS, AND INSTITUTIONS OF OUR SOCIETY IN A WAY THAT A NATIVE-BORN CITIZEN WOULD LEARN FROM FORMAL EDUCATION AND BASIC SOCIAL CONTACT.  CONGRESS SPECIFICALLY PROVIDED THAT AN ALIEN SEEKING CITIZENSHIP STATUS MUST DEMONSTRATE "AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE" AND "A KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING OF THE FUNDAMENTALS OF THE HISTORY, AND OF THE PRINCIPLES AND FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OF THE UNITED STATES."  8 U.S.C. ^ 1423.  THE PURPOSE WAS TO MAKE THE ALIEN ESTABLISH THAT HE OR SHE UNDERSTOOD, AND COULD BE INTEGRATED INTO, OUR SOCIAL SYSTEM.

"THROUGH THE SYSTEM OF CITIZENSHIP CLASSES SPONSORED BY THE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE AND THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM, THE ALIEN IS AIDED IN PREPARING HIMSELF FOR CITIZENSHIP, AND EVERY EFFORT IS MADE TO GIVE HIM FUNDAMENTAL AND UNIFORM KNOWLEDGE OF OUR POLITICAL AND SOCIAL STRUCTURE.  IN ORDER THAT HE MAY INTELLIGENTLY USE THIS FUNDAMENTAL AND UNIFORM KNOWLEDGE AND SO THAT HE MAY BE A COMPLETE AND THOROUGHLY INTEGRATED MEMBER OF OUR AMERICAN SOCIETY, THE COMMITTEE (HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE) FEELS THAT HE SHOULD HAVE A BASIC KNOWLEDGE OF THE COMMON LANGUAGE OF THE COUNTRY AND BE ABLE TO READ, WRITE, AND SPEAK IT WITH REASONABLE FACILITY."  H. R. REP. NO. 1365, 82D CONG., 2D SESS., 78 (1952) (EMPHASIS ADDED).

SEE ALSO 8 U.S.C. ^ 1424, WHICH PRECLUDES ALIENS WHO MANIFEST CERTAIN OPPOSITION TO OUR SOCIETY OR FORM OF GOVERNMENT FROM BEING NATURALIZED.  AN ALIEN MUST DEMONSTRATE "GOOD MORAL CHARACTER," 8 U.S.C. ^ 1427 (A)(3), WHICH WAS INTENDED BY CONGRESS TO MEAN A BROAD "ATTACHMENT) TO THE PRINCIPLES OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, AND (DISPOSITION) TO THE GOOD ORDER AND HAPPINESS OF THE UNITED STATES."  H. R. REP. NO. 1365, SUPRA, AT 80.  SEE ALSO 8 CFR ^ 332B (1973), DETAILING THE COOPERATION BETWEEN THE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE AND LOCAL SCHOOLS CONDUCTING CITIZENSHIP EDUCATION FOR APPLICANTS FOR NATURALIZATION.  THE ABOVE IS SUFFICIENT TO DEMONSTRATE, I BELIEVE, THAT CONGRESS PROVIDED THAT ALIENS SEEKING CITIZENSHIP STATUS PROVE WHAT CITIZENS BY BIRTH ARE, AS A CLASS, PRESUMED TO UNDERSTAND:  A BASIC FAMILIARITY WITH OUR SOCIAL AND POLITICAL MORES AND INSTITUTIONS.  THE NATURALIZED CITIZEN HAS DEMONSTRATED BOTH THE WILLINGNESS AND ABILITY TO INTEGRATE INTO OUR SOCIAL SYSTEM AS A WHOLE, NOT JUST INTO OUR "POLITICAL COMMUNITY," AS THE COURT APPARENTLY USES THE TERM.  HE PROVED THAT HE HAS BECOME "LIKE" A NATIVEBORN CITIZEN IN WAYS THAT ALIENS, AS A CLASS, COULD BE PRESUMED NOT TO BE.  THE COURT SIMPLY IGNORES THE PURPOSE OF THE PROCESS OF ASSIMILATION INTO AND DEDICATION TO OUR SOCIETY THAT CONGRESS PRESCRIBED TO MAKE ALIENS "LIKE" CITIZENS.

IN NO. 71 - 1222, I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT IT IS IRRATIONAL FOR NEW YORK TO REQUIRE THIS CLASS OF CIVIL SERVANTS TO BE CITIZENS, EITHER NATURAL BORN OR NATURALIZED.  THE PROLIFERATION OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION THAT OUR SOCIETY HAS WITNESSED IN RECENT YEARS, AS A RESULT OF THE REGULATION OF CONDUCT AND THE DISPENSATION OF SERVICES AND FUNDS, HAS VESTED A GREAT DEAL OF DE FACTO DECISIONMAKING OR POLICYMAKING AUTHORITY IN THE HANDS OF EMPLOYEES WHO WOULD NOT BE CONSIDERED THE TEXTBOOK EQUIVALENT OF POLICYMAKERS OF THE LEGISLATIVE OR "TOP" ADMINISTRATIVE VARIETY.  NEVERTHELESS, AS FAR AS THE PRIVATE INDIVIDUAL WHO MUST SEEK APPROVAL OR SERVICES IS CONCERNED, MANY OF THESE "LOW LEVEL" CIVIL SERVANTS ARE IN FACT POLICYMAKERS.  GOLDBERG V. KELLY, 397 U. S. 254 (1970), IMPLICITLY RECOGNIZED THAT THOSE WHO APPLY FACTS TO INDIVIDUAL CASES ARE AS MUCH "GOVERNORS" AS THOSE WHO WRITE THE LAWS OR REGULATIONS THE "LOW-LEVEL" ADMINISTRATOR MUST "APPLY."

SINCE POLICY-MAKING FOR A POLITICAL COMMUNITY IS NOT NECESSARILY THE EXCLUSIVE PRESERVE OF THE LEGISLATORS, JUDGES, AND "TOP" ADMINISTRATORS, IT IS NOT IRRATIONAL FOR THE CITY OF NEW YORK TO PROVIDE THAT ONLY CITIZENS SHOULD BE ADMITTED TO THE COMPETITIVE CIVIL SERVICE.

BUT THE JUSTIFICATION OF EFFICIENT GOVERNMENT IS AN EVEN MORE CONVINCING RATIONALE.  NATIVE-BORN CITIZENS CAN BE EXPECTED TO BE FAMILIAR WITH THE SOCIAL AND POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS OF OUR SOCIETY; WITH THE SOCIETY AND POLITICAL MORES THAT AFFECT HOW WE REACT AND INTERACT WITH OTHER CITIZENS.  NATURALIZED CITIZENS HAVE ALSO DEMONSTRATED THEIR WILLINGNESS TO ADJUST TO OUR PATTERNS OF LIVING AND ATTITUDES, AND HAVE DEMONSTRATED A BASIC UNDERSTANDING OF OUR INSTITUTIONS, SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT, HISTORY, AND TRADITIONS.  IT IS NOT IRRATIONAL TO ASSUME THAT ALIENS AS A CLASS ARE NOT FAMILIAR WITH HOW WE AS INDIVIDUALS TREAT OTHERS AND HOW WE EXPECT "GOVERNMENT"  TO TREAT US.  AN ALIEN WHO GREW UP IN A COUNTRY IN WHICH POLITICAL MORES DO NOT REJECT BRIBERY OR SELF-DEALING TO THE SAME EXTENT THAT OUR CULTURE DOES; IN WHICH AN IMPERIOUS BUREAUCRACY HISTORICALLY ADOPTED A COMPLACENT OR CONTEMPTUOUS ATTITUDE TOWARD THOSE IT WAS SUPPOSE TO SERVE; IN WHICH FEWER IF ANY CHECKS EXISTED ON ADMINISTRATIVE ABUSES; IN WHICH "LOW-LEVEL" CIVIL SERVANTS SERVE AT THE WILL OF THEIR SUPERIORS--COULD RATIONALLY BE THOUGHT NOT TO BE ABLE TO DEAL WITH THE PUBLIC AND WITH CITIZEN CIVIL SERVANTS WITH THE SAME RAPPORT THAT ONE FAMILIAR WITH OUR POLITICAL AND SOCIAL MORES WOULD, OR TO APPROACH HIS DUTIES WITH THE ATTITUDE THAT SUCH POSITIONS EXIST FOR SERVICE, NOT PERSONAL SINECURES OF EITHER THE CIVIL SERVANT OR HIS OR HER SUPERIOR.

THESE CONSIDERATIONS COULD RATIONALLY BE EXPECTED TO INFLUENCE HOW AN ADMINISTRATOR IN CHARGE OF A PROGRAM, SUCH AS APPELLEE DOUGALL, MADE DECISIONS IN ALLOCATING FUNDS, HIRING OR DEALING WITH PERSONNEL, OR DECISIONMAKING, OR HOW A LOWER LEVEL CIVIL SERVANT, SUCH AS APPELLEE JORGE, WAS ABLE TO PERFORM WITH AND FOR FELLOW WORKERS AND SUPERIORS, EVEN IF SHE HAD NO DIRECT CONTACT WITH THE PUBLIC.  ALL THESE FACTORS COULD MATERIALLY AFFECT THE EFFICIENT FUNCTIONING OF THE CITY GOVERNMENT, AND POSSIBLY AS WELL THE VERY INTEGRITY OF THAT GOVERNMENT.  SUCH A LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE IS CLEARLY NOT IRRATIONAL.

IN NO. 71 - 1336 THE ANSWER IS NOT AS CLEARCUT.  THE STATES TRADITIONALLY HAVE HAD GREAT LATITUDE IN PRESCRIBING RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING TECHNICAL COMPETENCE AND CHARACTER FITNESS, GOVERNING THOSE WHO SEEK TO BE ADMITTED TO PRACTICE LAW.  SEE, E. G. KONIGSBERG V. STATE BAR OF CALIFORNIA, 366 U. S. 36 (1961).  THE IMPORTANCE OF LAWYERS AND THE JUDICIARY IN OUR SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT AND JUSTICE NEEDS NO EXTENDED COMMENT.  AN ATTORNEY IS AN "OFFICER OF THE COURT" IN CONNECTICUT, A STATUS THIS COURT HAS ALSO RECOGNIZED.  SEE, E. G., POWELL V. ALABAMA, 287 U. S. 45, 73 (1932); EX PARTE GARLAND, 4 WALL.  333, 370 (1867).  HE REPRESENTS HIS CLIENT, BUT ALSO, IN CONNECTICUT, MAY "SIGN WRITS AND SUBPOENAS, TAKE RECOGNIZANCES, (AND) ADMINISTER OATHS."  CONN. GEN. STAT. REV. ^ 51 - 85.

MORE IMPORTANT THAN THESE EMOLUMENTS OF THEIR POSITION, THOUGH, IS THE TREMENDOUS RESPONSIBILITY AND TRUST THAT OUR SOCIETY PLACES IN THE HANDS OF LAWYERS.  THE LIBERTY AND PROPERTY OF THE CLIENT MAY DEPEND UPON THE COMPETENCE AND FIDELITY OF THE REPRESENTATION AFFORDED BY THE LAWYER IN ANY NUMBER OF PARTICULAR LAWSUITS.  BUT BY VIRTUE OF THEIR OFFICE LAWYERS ARE ALSO GIVEN, AND HAVE INCREASINGLY UNDERTAKEN TO EXERCISE, AUTHORITY TO SEEK TO ALTER SOME OF THE SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS AND INSTITUTIONS OF OUR SOCIETY BY USE OF THE JUDICIAL PROCESS.  NO DOUBT AN ALIEN EVEN UNDER TODAY'S DECISION MAY BE REQUIRED TO BE LEARNED IN THE LAW AND FAMILIAR WITH THE LANGUAGE SPOKEN IN THE COURTS OF THE PARTICULAR STATE INVOLVED.  BUT CONNECTICUT'S REQUIREMENT OF CITIZENSHIP REFLECTS ITS JUDGMENT THAT SOMETHING MORE THAN TECHNICAL SKILLS ARE NEEDED TO BE A LAWYER UNDER OUR SYSTEM.  I DO NOT BELIEVE IT IS IRRATIONAL FOR A STATE THAT MAKES THAT JUDGMENT TO REQUIRE THAT LAWYERS HAVE AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE AMERICAN POLITICAL AND SOCIAL EXPERIENCE, WHETHER GAINED FROM GROWING UP IN THIS COUNTRY, AS IN THE CASE OF A NATIVE-BORN CITIZEN, OR FROM THE NATURALIZATION PROCESS, AS IN THE CASE OF A FOREIGN-BORN CITIZEN.  I SUPPOSE THE CONNECTICUT BAR EXAMINING COMMITTEE COULD ITSELF ADMINISTER TESTS IN AMERICAN HISTORY, GOVERNMENT, AND SOCIOLOGY, BUT THE STATE DID NOT CHOOSE TO GO THIS ROUTE.  INSTEAD, IT CHOSE TO OPERATE ON THE ASSUMPTION THAT CITIZENS AS A CLASS MIGHT REASONABLY BE THOUGHT TO HAVE A SIGNIFICANTLY GREATER DEGREE OF UNDERSTANDING OF OUR EXPERIENCE THAN WOULD ALIENS.

PARTICULARLY IN THE CASE OF ONE SUCH AS APPELLANT, WHO CANDIDLY ADMITS THAT SHE WANTS TO LIVE AND WORK IN THE UNITED STATES BUT DOES NOT WANT TO SEVER HER FUNDAMENTAL SOCIAL AND POLITICAL RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COUNTRY OF HER BIRTH, I DO NOT BELIEVE THE STATE'S JUDGMENT IS IRRATIONAL.

I WOULD THEREFORE REVERSE THE JUDGMENT IN NO. 71 - 1222 AND AFFIRM THAT IN NO. 71 - 1336.

/1/  ALTHOUGH SOME OF THE MEMBERS OF THE CLASS HAD NOT BEEN RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES FOR FIVE YEARS AT THE TIME THE COMPLAINT WAS FILED, AND THEREFORE WERE INELIGIBLE TO APPLY IMMEDIATELY FOR CITIZENSHIP, 8 U.S.C. ^ 1427, THERE IS NO INDICATION THAT THESE MEMBERS, ASSUMING THAT THEY ARE IN THE SAME "CLASS" AS THE NAMED APPELLEES, WOULD BE PROHIBITED FROM SEEKING CITIZENSHIP STATUS AFTER THEY HAD RESIDED IN THIS COUNTRY FOR THE REQUIRED PERIOD.  IN ANY EVENT, THIS CIRCUMSTANCE ONLY UNDERSCORES THE FACT THAT IT IS NOT UNREASONABLE TO ASSUME THAT THEY HAVE NOT LEARNED ABOUT AND ADAPTED TO OUR MORES AND INSTITUTIONS TO THE SAME EXTENT AS ONE WHO HAD LIVED HERE FOR FIVE YEARS WOULD HAVE THROUGH SOCIAL CONTACT.

/2/  ALTHOUGH STATED IN GRAHAM AND THE INSTANT CASES THAT ALIENS ARE "LIKE" CITIZENS BECAUSE THEY WERE SUBJECT TO SERVICE IN THE ARMED SERVICES, NONE OF THE OPINIONS CONSIDERED IN FACT THAT CONGRESS PROVIDED THAT ALIENS WHO IN FACT SERVED HONORABLY COULD EXPEDITIOUSLY BECOME CITIZENS.  8 U.S.C. ^ 1440.  THE COURT'S RELIANCE ON THE FACT THAT SOME MALE ALIENS HAD TO REGISTER FOR THE DRAFT AND SERVE IF CALLED TO SUGGEST THAT ALIENS AND CITIZENS ARE "THE SAME" NEGLECTS TO CONSIDER THIS STATUTE:  ALIENS WHO SERVED HONORABLY WERE "LIKE" CITIZENS IN THAT THEY DEMONSTRATED, LIKE CITIZENS, A COMMITMENT TO OUR SOCIETY THAT CONGRESS BELIEVED WARRANTED, OTHER CONSIDERATIONS ASIDE, THEIR IMMEDIATE, FORMAL ACCEPTANCE INTO OUR SOCIETY.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER, WITH WHOM MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST JOINS, DISSENTING.

I AGREE GENERALLY WITH MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST'S DISSENT AND ADD A FEW OBSERVATIONS.

IN THE RAPIDLY SHRINKING "ONE WORLD" WE LIVE IN THERE ARE NUMEROUS REASONS WHY THE STATES MIGHT APPROPRIATELY CONSIDER RELAXING SOME OF THE RESTRAINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF PROFESSIONS BY ALIENS.  THE FUNDAMENTAL FACTOR, HOWEVER, IS THAT THE STATES RESERVED, AMONG OTHER POWERS, THAT OF REGULATING THE PRACTICE OF PROFESSIONS WITHIN THEIR OWN BORDERS.  IF THAT CONCEPT HAS LESS VALIDITY NOW THAN IN THE 18TH CENTURY WHEN IT WAS MADE PART OF THE "BARGAIN" TO CREATE A FEDERAL UNION, IT IS NONETHELESS PART OF THAT COMPACT.

A LARGE NUMBER OF AMERICAN NATIONALS ARE ADMITTED TO THE PRACTICE OF LAW IN MORE THAN A DOZEN COUNTRIES; THIS WILL EXPAND AS WORLD TRADE ENLARGES.  BUT THE QUESTION FOR THE COURT IS NOT WHAT IS ENLIGHTENED OR SOUND POLICY BUT RATHER WHAT THE CONSTITUTION AND ITS AMENDMENTS PROVIDE; I AM UNABLE TO ACCORD TO THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT THE EXPANSIVE READING THE COURT GIVES IT.

IN RECENT YEARS THE COURT, IN A RATHER CASUAL WAY, HAS ARTICULATED THE CODE PHRASE "SUSPECT CLASSIFICATION" AS THOUGH IT EMBRACED A REASONED CONSTITUTIONAL CONCEPT.  ADMITTEDLY, IT SIMPLIFIES JUDICIAL WORK AS DO "PER SE" RULES, BUT IT TENDS TO STOP ANALYSIS WHILE APPEARING TO SUGGEST AN ANALYTICAL PROCESS.

MUCH AS I AGREE WITH SOME ASPECTS OF THE POLICY IMPLICIT IN THE COURT'S HOLDING, I AM BOUND--IF I APPLY THE CONSTITUTION AS ITS WORDS AND INTENT SPEAK TO ME--TO REJECT THE GOOD POLICY THE COURT NOW ADOPTS.

I AM UNWILLING TO ACCEPT WHAT SEEMS TO ME A DENIGRATION OF THE POSTURE AND ROLE OF A LAWYER AS AN "OFFICER OF THE COURT."  IT IS THAT ROLE THAT A STATE IS ENTITLED TO RELY ON AS A BASIS FOR EXCLUDING ALIENS FROM THE PRACTICE OF LAW.  BY VIRTUE OF HIS ADMISSION A LAWYER IS GRANTED WHAT CAN FAIRLY BE CALLED A MONOPOLY OF SORTS; HE IS GRANTED A LICENSE TO APPEAR AND TRY CASES; HE CAN CAUSE WITNESSES TO DROP THEIR PRIVATE AFFAIRS AND BE CALLED FOR DEPOSITIONS AND OTHER PRETRIAL PROCESSES THAT, WHILE SUBJECT TO THE ULTIMATE CONTROL OF THE COURT, ARE CONDUCTED BY LAWYERS OUTSIDE COURTROOMS; THE ENORMOUS POWER OF CROSS EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES IS GRANTED EXCLUSIVELY TO LAWYERS.  INHERENT IN THESE LARGE POWERS IS THE ABILITY TO COMPEL ANSWERS SUBJECT, OF COURSE, TO SUCH LIMITING RESTRAINTS AS THE FIFTH AMENDMENT AND RULES OF EVIDENCE.  IN MOST STATES A LAWYER IS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE SUBPOENAS COMMANDING THE PRESENCE OF PERSONS AND EVEN THE PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.  THE BROAD MONOPOLY GRANTED TO LAWYERS IS THE AUTHORITY TO PRACTICE A PROFESSION AND BY VIRTUE OF THAT TO DO THINGS OTHER CITIZENS MAY NOT LAWFULLY DO.  IN THE COMMON LAW TRADITION THE LAWYER BECOMES THE ATTORNEY--THE AGENT--FOR A CLIENT ONLY BY VIRTUE OF HIS HAVING BEEN FIRST INVESTED WITH POWER BY THE STATE, USUALLY BY A COURT.  THE LAWYER'S OBLIGATIONS AS AN OFFICER OF THE COURT PERMIT THE COURT TO CALL ON THE LAWYER TO PERFORM DUTIES WHICH NO COURT COULD ORDER CITIZENS GENERALLY TO DO, INCLUDING THE OBLIGATION TO OBSERVE CODES OF ETHICAL CONDUCT NOT BINDING ON THE PUBLIC GENERALLY.

THE CONCEPT OF A LAWYER AS AN OFFICER OF THE COURT AND HENCE PART OF THE OFFICIAL MECHANISM OF JUSTICE IN THE SENSE OF OTHER COURT OFFICERS, INCLUDING THE JUDGE, ALBEIT WITH DIFFERENT DUTIES, IS NOT UNIQUE IN OUR SYSTEM BUT IT IS A SIGNIFICANT FEATURE OF THE LAWYER'S ROLE IN THE COMMON LAW.  THIS CONCEPT HAS SUSTAINED SOME EROSION OVER THE YEARS AT THE HANDS OF CYNICS WHO VIEW THE LAWYER MUCH AS THE "HIRED GUN" OF THE OLD WEST.  IN LESS FLAMBOYANT TERMS THE LAWYER IN THIS RELATION TO THE CLIENT CAME TO BE CALLED A "MOUTHPIECE" IN THE GANGLAND PARLANCE OF THE 1930'S.  UNDER THIS BLEAK VIEW OF THE PROFESSION THE LAWYER, ONCE ENGAGED, DOES HIS CLIENT'S BIDDING, LAWFUL OR NOT, ETHICAL OR NOT.

WHATEVER THE EROSION OF THE OFFICER-OF-THE-COURT ROLE, THE OVERWHELMING PROPORTION OF THE LEGAL PROFESSION REJECTS BOTH THE DENIGRATED ROLE OF THE ADVOCATE AND COUNSELOR THAT RENDERS HIM A LACKEY TO THE CLIENT AND THE ALIEN IDEA THAT HE IS AN AGENT OF GOVERNMENT.

SEE AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION PROJECT ON STANDARDS FOR CRIMINAL JUSTICE, THE PROSECUTION FUNCTION AND THE DEFENSE FUNCTION ^ 1.1 (APPROVED DRAFT 1971).

THE ROLE OF A LAWYER AS AN OFFICER OF THE COURT PREDATES THE CONSTITUTION; IT WAS CARRIED OVER FROM THE ENGLISH SYSTEM AND BECAME FIRMLY EMBEDDED IN OUR TRADITION.  IT INCLUDED THE OBLIGATION OF FIRST DUTY TO CLIENT.  BUT THAT DUTY NEVER WAS AND IS NOT TODAY AN ABSOLUTE OR UNQUALIFIED DUTY.  IT IS A FIRST LOYALTY TO SERVE THE CLIENT'S INTEREST BUT ALWAYS WITHIN--NEVER OUTSIDE--THE LAW, THUS PLACING A HEAVY PERSONAL AND INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY ON THE LAWYER.  THAT THIS IS OFTEN UNENFORCEABLE, THAT DEPARTURES FROM IT REMAIN UNDETECTED, AND THAT JUDGES AND BAR ASSOCIATIONS HAVE BEEN SINGULARLY TOLERANT OF MISDEEDS OF THEIR BRETHREN, RENDERS IT NO LESS IMPORTANT TO A PROFESSION THAT IS INCREASINGLY CRUCIAL TO OUR WAY OF LIFE.  THE VERY INDEPENDENCE OF THE LAWYER FROM THE GOVERNMENT ON THE ONE HAND AND CLIENT ON THE OTHER IS WHAT MAKES LAW A PROFESSION, SOMETHING APART FROM TRADES AND VOCATIONS IN WHICH OBLIGATIONS OF DUTY AND CONSCIENCE PLAY A LESSER PART.  IT IS AS CRUCIAL TO OUR SYSTEM OF JUSTICE AS THE INDEPENDENCE OF JUDGES THEMSELVES.

THE HISTORY OF THE LEGAL PROFESSION IS FILLED WITH ACCOUNTS OF LAWYERS WHO RISKED CAREERS BY ASSERTING THEIR INDEPENDENT STATUS IN OPPOSITION TO POPULAR AND GOVERNMENTAL ATTITUDES, AS JOHN ADAMS DID IN BOSTON TO DEFEND THE SOLDIERS ACCUSED IN WHAT WE KNOW IN OUR FOLKLORE AS THE "BOSTON MASSACRE."  TO THAT COULD BE ADDED THE LAWYERS WHO DEFENDED JOHN PETER ZENGER AND DOWN TO LAWYERS IN MODERN TIMES IN CASES SUCH AS JOHNSON V. ZERBST, 304 U. S. 458 (1938).  THE CRUCIAL FACTOR IN ALL THESE CASES IS THAT THE ADVOCATES PERFORMED THEIR DUAL ROLE-OFFICER OF THE COURT AND ADVOCATE FOR A CLIENT--STRICTLY WITHIN AND NEVER IN DEROGATION OF HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS.  THERE IS THUS A REASONABLE, RATIONAL BASIS FOR A STATE TO CONCLUDE THAT PERSONS OWING FIRST LOYALTY TO THIS COUNTRY WILL GRASP THESE TRADITIONS AND APPLY OUR CONCEPTS MORE THAN THOSE WHO SEEK THE BENEFITS OF AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP WHILE DECLINING TO ACCEPT THE BURDENS OF CITIZENSHIP IN THIS COUNTRY.

IN SOME COUNTRIES THE LEGAL SYSTEM IS SO STRUCTURED THAT ALL LAWYERS ARE LITERALLY AGENTS OF GOVERNMENT AND AS SUCH BOUND TO PLACE THE INTERESTS OF GOVERNMENT OVER THOSE OF THE CLIENT.  THAT CONCEPT IS SO ALIEN TO OUR SYSTEM WITH AN INDEPENDENT BAR THAT I FIND IT DIFFICULT TO SEE HOW NATIONALS OF SUCH A COUNTRY, INCULCATED WITH THOSE IDEAS AND AT THE SAME TIME UNWILLING TO ACCEPT AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP, COULD BE PROPERLY INTEGRATED INTO OUR SYSTEM.  AT THE VERY LEAST WE OUGHT NOT STRETCH THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT TO FORCE THE STATES TO ACCEPT ANY NATIONAL OF ANY COUNTRY SIMPLY BECAUSE OF A RECITAL OF THE REQUIRED OATH AND PASSING OF THE BAR EXAMINATION.

SINCE THE COURT NOW STRIKES DOWN A POWER OF THE STATES ACCEPTED AS FUNDAMENTAL SINCE 1781, EVEN IF STATES SOMETIMES ELECTED NOT TO EXERCISE IT, CF. BRADWELL V. STATE, 16 WALL.  130 (1873), THE STATES MAY WELL MOVE TO ADOPT, BY STATUTE OR RULE OF COURT, A RECIPROCAL PROVISO, FAMILIAR IN OTHER CONTEXTS; UNDER SUCH A RECIPROCAL TREATMENT OF APPLICANTS A STATE WOULD ADMIT TO THE PRACTICE OF LAW THE NATIONALS OF SUCH OTHER COUNTRIES AS ADMIT AMERICAN CITIZENS TO PRACTICE.  I FIND NOTHING IN THE CORE HOLDING OF ZSCHERNIG V. MILLER, 389 U. S. 429 (1968), TO FORECLOSE STATE ADOPTION OF SUCH RECIPROCAL PROVISIONS.  SEE CLARK V. ALLEN, 331 U. S. 503 (1947).

R. DAVID BROILES ARGUED THE CAUSE FOR APPELLANT.  WITH HIM ON THE BRIEF WERE MELVIN L. WULF AND JOEL M. GORA.

GEORGE R. TIERNAN ARGUED THE CAUSE AND FILED A BRIEF FOR THE STATE BAR EXAMINING COMMITTEE OF CONNECTICUT.

LOUIS J. LEFKOWITZ, PRO SE, SAMUEL A. HIRSHOWITZ, FIRST ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, AND DANIEL M. COHEN, ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, FILED A BRIEF FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF NEW YORK AS AMICUS CURIAE URGING AFFIRMANCE.


----------
----------

